# Node JS - Base Project

## Introduction
The intention of this project is to create a reusable base to develop all sorts
of ideas based on NodeJs while keeping the intial hassle of setting up a project
to a minimum.

> With great power comes great responsibliity

[Node Js](https://nodejs.org) is the weapon of choice here, for starters because
I like JavaScript. I believe the power and the flexibility it holds can be
missused and in the wrong hands it leads to some hard-to-swallow
[travesties](http://callbackhell.com/).

My main concern is to keep everything tidy, clean, easy to read and, above all,
easy to work with. It is not only the obsession of understanding what I am doing
or what I did a few months ago. This is about making it clear for other fellow
developers, colleagues or friends understand what they have been handed and be
able to work with it right off the bat.

## Sidekicks
Node JS has a myriad of libraries available that cover a lot of ground. With the
project at hand I will try to give an answer to the most common needs I usually
have. Of course, as I develop more and more projects, I will spot some more
necessities and those will be added as they present themselves.

### Express
> Fast, unopinionated, minimalist web framework for Node.js

The fastest way to start developing a project is to have a framework that will
take most of the annoying tasks out of our way.
[Express](https://expressjs.com/) is arguably the most popular framework out
there. In fact there is more than a dozen other frameworks based on this one.

For the time being, `Express` is going to be the one and only framework I will
be using.

```bash
$ npm install express --save
```

### Jest
> Jest is a delightful JavaScript Testing Framework with a focus on simplicity

My word, when it comes to quotes there are few that match this one.

_[...] Delightful JavaScript Testing Framework [...]_

Savour each word as you read them. This bold claim kind of makes you want to put
them to the test.

When I first read that [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) was developed by
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/) I was cautious. In the past I have
developed games that were played on said platform. That was a weight that was
holding me back from using `Jest`.

I was so wrong. It is easy, it works out of the box and it gives you great bang
for the buck. These reasons make it one of the best Plug and Play libraries I
have ever found.

```bash
$ npm install --save-dev jest
```
